Thomas Huzij
tph2109@columbia.edu
Homework 3

1) The provided dataset cleve.txt was already in a convenient comma-seperated
format so it was just a matter of including it at the bottom of an .arff file
after the @data declaration. Above all that all I needed to do was declare the
relation, and a list of all the attributes in the dataset corresponding to
every index in the comma-seperated list of values. The last declared attribute
becomes the class identifier and must be nominal.

2) This problem is just a matter of testing out Weka's experimenting
capabilities. To carry this out, open Weka and click on the 'Experimenter'
application. Click 'New', and then 'Add new...' under Datasets. Select the
file cleve.arff and it should appear in the list of Datasets. Then click
'Add new...' under Algorithms, 'Choose' in the window that pops up, and select
the corresponding trees that are being experimented on (ADTree, RandomForest,
etc) one at a time. After each one is selected, it should appear in the list
of Algorithms. Finally, select a Results Destination for your experiment. Now go
to the 'Run' tab, and click 'Start'. After some time it should complete running
and you can proceed to the 'Analyse' tab. Here, click 'File' and select the file
created by Weka; it should have the same filename as the one provided in the
Results Destination under the 'Setup' tab. Select 'Percent_incorrect' under
'Comparison Field', check off 'Show std. deviations', and click 'Perform test'.
This should output an easy to read table in plaintext under the 'Test Output'.

3) This problem is just a matter of using your output from problem 2 to generate
a table for the report. See problem 2 for instructions on how to generate the
output from the original dataset.

4) This problem requires you to extend the table from problem 3. It is basically
the same as problem 2 but requires a few slight changes when setting up the
experiment. When adding new algorithms using 'Add new...' under 'Algorithms',
instead of immediately clicking OK once the desired algorithm has been chosen,
the number of iterations must be changed. The homework description specifies
which field in this dialog window must be changed for each corresponding tree
to modify the number of iterations (numFolds for C4.5, numIterations for
Bagging, etc). This is really the only difference in generating the results,
otherwise see problem 2 for the full details of this process.

5) This problem is just a matter of using Weka's exporer capabilities. To carry
this out, open Weka and click on the 'Explorer' application. Click 'Open file'
and select the cleve.arff dataset. Now move to the 'Classify' tab, and select
the appropriate algorithm using the 'Choose' button under 'Classifier'. The
other settings should all be correct already so click 'Start' and results
should be generated. Right click the result under the 'Result list' and click
'Visualize tree'. This should open a window with a visual representation of the
tree and you now have a sample tree. Repeat for any desired algorithm (ADTree,
C4.5, etc).

6) See report for discussion of results.

Files submitted:
README (this file)
Report.pdf (main report)
cleve.arff (Weka-compatible dataset)
results2.arff (Weka-compatible results for problem 2, can load in Analyze tab)
results2.txt (plaintext results for problem 2)
results3.arff (Weka-compatible results for problem 3, can load in Analyze tab)
results3.txt (plaintext results for problem 3)
results4_1.arff (Weka-compatible results for problem 4, can load in Analyze tab)
results4_1.txt (plaintext results for problem 4)
results4_2.arff (more Weka-compatible results for problem 4)
results4_2.txt (more plaintext results for problem 4)
results4_3.arff (more Weka-compatible results for problem 4)
results4_3.txt (more plaintext results for problem 4; note, changing the number
of iterations for J48 did not affect the results at all so Weka merged all three
versions of the algorithm into one)
